[NATSUME] So if you're
telling me these "rules"
or whatever are the real enemy,
then point me at 'em,
and I'll go put a needle in 'em.
[KABURAGI]
Hmm...
Sounds good. Now let's‐‐
Ugh!!
[NATSUME]
Huh?
Boss!
I'm afraid you
won't be leaving here.
For the world must be
free of bugs, you see.
[OMEGA roaring]
[SONNY]
What the hell is that?
Did one of 'em survive?
Sure does look that way.
'Cause I thought that
was literally impossible.
A new Gadoll.
Was it hidden somewhere?
No, there's no way.
But, sir.
Every single Gadoll
was connected to the GGS.
It's hard‐coded into
all of their control chips.
Uh?! This thing
doesn't have an ID!
We have an unchipped Gadoll!
The system has
no way to control it!
[MINATO]
Put in a request for orders now!
In the meantime,
activate Deca‐dence!
Was that a Gadoll?
These bugs are multiplying.
Yes, understood.
I'll take care of this.
I've lost a great deal
of time to bugs lately.
So let's not draw this out.
[KABURAGI]
Natsume! Natsume!
Hey. Are you still with me?
Natsume!
[NATSUME shrieks]
Ah! What the hell? Wait, Boss!
Please, Boss! Open your eyes!
Please. Stay with me.
Ugh.... You really
need to chill out.
Please, don't leave me.
Please, don't die!
Back here.
[gasps]
It's you, from before,
but what are you doing in here?
Keeping my old boss
from killing you.
That was just the
body I'd been using.
Like I said, it's a
manufactured avatar. I'm fine.
So you're telling me,
you're the "boss."
[KABURAGI] I can see how it'd
be confusing for you, but yeah.
It's still Kaburagi in here.
Now you are still
gonna help me, right?
It really is you.
As long as I can punch you!
Was the one shot not enough?
[NATSUME]
Then that noise I heard before.
[KABURAGI]
Yeah. One of them lived.
Or rather. One was
spawned after the end.
That's impossible;
Gadoll have no way
to reproduce on their own!
It couldn't have spawned
with the factory gone!
Feel free to go tell it that,
but I don't think it's
gonna be convinced.
I'd need a sample to guess how,
but the thing's here
in front of us, right?
The Gadoll are manufactured
with a narrow set of behaviors.
They're barely autonomous,
to say nothing about free will.
This could be a flash
mutation in response
to the prospect of extinction.
Whatever happened, though,
to the system it's
just another bug.
[KABURAGI]
Really?
A system this complex has
weak points and blind spots.
The bugs will always
find their way in.
It's hubris to think
you can keep them out.
So this Gadoll is a bug.
It's the same as me.
Bye, Pipe. I'm sorry.
Now, let's go.
Right.
[OPERATOR A]
Halting Deca‐dence.
[MINATO]
It's not attacking us.
Does that mean it doesn't
have a target programmed?
[OPERATOR C]
Commander!
Orders've just come in
from the system.
We are to engage and
destroy the novel Gadoll
now designated "Omega"
using Deca‐dence.
Got it. Fire blood‐sucking
harpoons!
Target is Omega!
The breach in
the tank is still open,
so we can't charge
to full power.
Oxyone is at 58 percent!
But we can't wait.
Fire when the charge
reaches 60 percent!
[OPERATOR B] Roger that, sir.
Igniting cannon!
[OPERATOR A]
Firing preparations complete.
In five, four, three, two, one!
Fire now!
There's no way.
It caught us?
[OPERATOR C]
The armor has been damaged!
[MINATO] Get clear. Retract
the arm at full speed now!
It's overpowering us!
[gasps]
What's going on out there?
Damage assessment!
[OPERATOR A] Movement
is 75 percent inoperative!
[MINATO]
Shit! Can we run?
[OPERATOR A]
Negative, sir!
[OPERATOR C]
Omega has gone silent!
It might be going dormant
to recover from the strike!
Commander. Incoming message!
The system is launching a Solid
Cannon strike against Omega!
Ah... That at least
buys some time.
Get a full sitrep now!
[OPERATORS]
Yes, sir!
Commander!
Omega's rate of cellular
division has started to spike!
So what now?
It just evolved?
System update, sir.
Solid Cannon online.
Ready to fire!
[OPERATOR C]
Something's wrong.
Omega is accumulating
oxyone energy!
Firing!
[CYBORG B]
What's going on?
Oh crap! What the hell is that?
Goodness me.
This is a surprise.
[MUNIN]
Pi pa pi, pa!
[HUGIN]
Then the time has come?
Very well.
It would seem my part in this
has at last reached its end.
[MUNIN]
Pipa! Pipa pipa, pi pa.
How can this be happening?
[OPERATOR C]
Commander!
Omega's cellular
division rate has crashed!
It appears to be sleeping!
Damage to headquarters
is unknown.
But based on
the information we have.
[MUNIN]
Commander Minato.
Our sincerest thanks
to you and your staff
for many years
of exemplary work.
A decision was made to
terminate the Deca‐dence service
until further notice.
What?
[MUNIN] The Eurasian dome will
be closed, and its contents,
including Omega
and your facility,
will be reverted via the
Spatial Compression Device.
The countdown sequence
has been initiated.
Consult your
display for details.
In accordance with protocol,
all users must log out.
[GEAR A] You're telling us
to log out now?
You just dropped a giant
Gadoll in front of us!
[GEAR C]
I figured it was all an event!
And are there any
new orders for the staff?
[MUNIN] As of this moment,
you have no orders.
The company must
conduct itself as to facilitate
its continued operation.
Accordingly, resources will be
expended as necessary
to preserve the system.
[NATSUME gasps]
No way. What is that?
[KABURAGI] Jill, do you copy?
What's going on?
[MINATO]
Kabu. Can you hear me?
[KABURAGI] I'm here, Minato.
What's happening?
[MINATO] The endgame.
Deca‐dence is shutting down.
[KABURAGI] What? Is that what
this timer's counting down to?
[MINATO]
Yeah. When it hits zero,
they're collapsing the dome,
and there's nothing we can do.
[JILL] There is.
We've got the fortress.
[KABURAGI]
Jill! You're okay?
[JILL]
Everything is fine here.
We're all safe and
communications are back up.
[MINATO]
Who are you exactly?
[JILL] Ah, that must be
Commander Minato, retired.
Don't mind me,
I'm just another bug.
[KABURAGI] What were you
saying about the fortress?
[JILL] There's still one avatar
we could log in with.
Deca‐dence itself.
[MINATO]
That's ridiculous!
There's no way for
a cyborg to connect‐‐
[JILL]
Oh, there certainly is.
Though it's not without risk.
[KABURAGI]
You're sure of that?
[JILL] Very. I do know a fair
bit about Deca‐dence's core,
considering I was part of
the team that developed it.
Our bodies are under
the control of the system,
but a cyborg's core operates
completely autonomously.
One of us could link cores
directly with Deca‐dence
and take control.
By "us," I mean "you,"
of course.
[KABURAGI]
I'll do it.
[MINATO]
Even if she's right,
what's the point of hijacking
Deca‐dence now?
It's crippled,
you'd be a sitting duck!
[KABURAGI]
We have to take out this Gadoll.
and this is the only option
we have right now.
[MINATO] We don't...
Enough of these suicidal plans.
Let it go and get clear
of the area already.
[NATSUME gasps]
Boss. Come quick! Look at this!
The big Gadoll's got
a bunch of little Gadoll
crawling out of it.
and it's super, super gross,
but I can't turn away.
[KABURAGI]
We're out of time.
Make it happen, Jill.
[JILL]
Understood.
[MINATO]
Don't do this!
Bastard!
Boss. We gotta hurry!
Go ahead. There's still
something I gotta take care of.
Like what?
What could you possibly‐‐
You're really
gonna do this, huh?
There's one thing I don't get.
You're a bug.
I dunno what there is to get.
Someone wrote these
rules the system runs on.
And I did something that
someone wouldn't approve of.
If you want the specifics,
I guess ya gotta ask the system.
Here's hopin' I get that chance.
The Gadoll just disappeared
right in front of our eyes.
So where the hell
did these come from?
Hey, how would I know?
We found out when you did.
Makin' me leave halfway through
a perfectly good drink.
All right, boys. Let's go!
[SOLDIER A]
Let's wreck 'em!
[SOLDIER B]
Watch it!
[KURENAI]
I gotta lie down.
Yeah, you were
going pretty hard.
Too hard.
[NATSUME]
Everyone okay?
[KURENAI] Yeah.
Is your boss out here with you?
He's taking care of a mission
that no one else can do.
'Course he is.
And we've got a mission too.
Let's get back to it!
[NATSUME]
Yes, ma'am!
[cheering]
[KABURAGI]
How much longer?
[JILL]
We're almost there.
Nobody's ever actually tried to
connect to Deca‐dence like this,
but it should work. In theory.
You really are tough
to figure out.
You act cold and distant,
but you've done so
much for all of us.
I can't tell which side
is really you.
Well I am a bug.
[KABURAGI]
Jill?
[JILL] Bugs are a symptom
and a cause of uncertainty.
We wanted a perfect system,
and we thought that
meant one without bugs.
We were so scared of the unknown
that we lost sight of all
the possibilities it can hold.
Sometimes you have to embrace
uncertainty to move forward.
It's a shame I couldn't
convince them back then.
You sound, um, happy?
You're all set.
It'll be enabled
once you reboot,
then you're ready to plug
yourself into Deca‐dence.
And remember: Whatever
happens next is on you.
[KABURAGI]
Like I said,
I've made my choice.
[JILL] I always wondered
what would happen
if someone set off
that bug I never reported.
And now I get to find out.
[KURENAI]
Hold the line!
We need to buy Deca‐dence
enough time to reactivate!
Don't let a single
enemy break through!
Yes, ma'am! You heard her.
Hell yeah, we're ready!
Just another day at work!
You gonna let them show us up?
Let's go, boys!
[RANDOM GEAR]
Take it out!
[KABURAGI] See you on
the other side, Natsume.
That was weird.
[MINATO]
Kabu, wait!
[KABURAGI]
Minato?
[MINATO]
Enough already.
We gotta get out of here, now.
What would that do?
Where can we go after all this?
[MINATO] We'll have time
to figure that out later.
Please, we can still make it
out of here if we just‐‐
[KABURAGI] I'm sorry,
but I can't go with you now.
You won't do anything
by dying here!
You can't win!
[KABURAGI] But I can't give up.
I have to try.
For that Tanker, right?
For some leftover human?
[KABURAGI] This might
be a mistake. It's true.
And that's why I have to do it.
You're insane!
Even in the middle of this,
you have zero doubts!
I don't understand
anything anymore.
I can't trust the system.
Or even myself.
What do you do when
every option seems wrong?
I'm lost.
[BUG A]
I love life on the outside!
[gasps]
[laughter]
Whoa. What're those?
And are they alive?
They're like toys.
Huh?! Look! A Tanker!
[BUG D]
Whoa, a Tanker in the flesh!
[RANDOM BUG G] Haven't seen
one of those in a while!
Looks like she's spooked!
Maybe she's broken.
Well! What a surprise.
So you're Natsume the human bug.
Huh?! That one knows
my name somehow.
Welcome to the party.
We're Kaburagi's
partners in crime.
You've probably seen
some of us in Gear form,
but our real bodies
look like this.
Except the guy
who looks like this.
[gasps]
Wait. So...
Then my boss has been a little
toy‐person like you all along?
[JILL] He and I are actually
a pretty similar form factor.
[RANDOM BUG G] Who's this
"Boss" she's talkin' about?
Why'd she stop?
Hey! You're lucky
lookin's free lady!
Oh my gosh. That's adorable.
You guys are so cute!
She thinks we're cute?
[BUG I]
Apparently we're cute.
Am I cute?
Of course you're not!
Well, if you're friends
of the boss,
then I wanna be
friends with you!
It's good to meet everyone.
The name's Natsume. How are you?
It's a pleasure. Hi there!
Suddenly it all makes sense.
So you're feeling lost, huh?
I remember that.
For the longest time,
I was just going through the
motions, waiting to be scrapped.
Then I found a bug,
and that saved me.
[gasps]
The system demanded that I erase
the bug, but I disagreed.
So I made a choice.
I did what I thought was right.
Huh?
I understand.
Minato.
The way the plug's situated,
I can't actually do this alone.
Could use your help.
[MINATO]
I know that's a lie.
If I can't finish this thing,
everything is still gonna
be gone after the reversion.
[MINATO]
What was that? A threat?
If that's how it sounds,
then sure go with that.
You knew I would
follow you to the core.
You've been planning
this the entire time!
'Course I have.
So you ready to
be partners again?
[laughs]
Thank you for this.
I think it's fair to say I've
gone full bug at this point.
How's it feel?
Hard to say.
My case isn't nearly
as advanced as yours.
Go time. Godspeed, Commander.
Yeah.
We're approaching
the intercept point.
Time to show 'em
what a top rank means.
We both know
what we're here to do.
Okay. Are you ready, Kabu?
Deca‐dence. Activate!